Ruby Fundamentals

Introduction: 
	Ruby is a dynamically typed scripting language with a focus on simplicity. It is also open source. Dynamically typed languages don't require type declarations for variables. Scripting languages are not compiled and focus on smaller programs. Open source languages are supported by the community and are free to use. Lastly the focus on simplicity cuts down on a lot of annoying syntax rampant in other languages, thus making Ruby an excellent beginning language.
	
Advantages: 
	The main focus of Ruby is the elegant syntax, it incorporates "duck typing" if you think you know it you probably do. Ruby cuts down on a lot of common vernacular in programming, for example most situations where parentheses are needed Ruby probably won't need them. Ruby is dynamically typed, this saves a lot of time and effort as programmers don't need to spend  too much time thinking of data types. Like other scripting languages Ruby focuses on small-scale projects, it excels in making short programs. Another interesting advantage of Ruby is "monkey patching", just about anyone can patch problems they find in Ruby. Lastly is the huge support for frameworks, if something is written in Ruby chances are it is using a framework. Ruby on Rails and Sinatra are two examples of very popular frameworks that are almost as synonymous as Ruby itself.

Disadvantages: 
	Because Ruby breaks the norm with unique syntax it is a bit of a black sheep, most veteran programmers find Ruby odd and difficult to program in. Dynamically typed languages can have issues with type confusion and limitations that statically typed languages are built to deal with. Compared to other scripting languages Ruby is slow, not incredibly but noticeably, this may change as Ruby is updated fairly often.

Supported Platforms: Windows, Linux, and Mac

Versions: First released in 1996, latest release version 2.5 2017

Popular Frameworks: Ruby on Rails, Sinatra, and Hanami.

Code Example: "puts "Hello World""


References:
	https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/
	https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruby_(programming_language)
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruby_(programming_language)#Table_of_versions